
                
       
    NTSB CRASH SPI 

  
       

   NTSB CRASH SPI

NTSB TESTS BORROWED 737 IN CRASH PROBE

(For use by New York Times News Service clients.)

By BILL VIRGIN

c.1996 Seattle Post Intelligencer



SEATTLE  -  The National Transportation Safety Board is borrowing
a Boeing 737 from Seattle's Museum of Flight as part of its
investigation into why a similar jetliner crashed near Pittsburgh
in 1994.


The museum's aircraft, ironically enough, was donated by USAir,
which operated the airplane that crashed, killing 132 people on
board.


The board is testing the plane's rudder controls to learn why
Flight 427 suddenly rolled and crashed while on its approach to the
Pittsburgh airport Sept. 8, 1994. Aviation safety investigators say
a sharp movement of the rudder  -  the movable vertical piece in the
plane's tail  -  could have caused the jet's deadly roll.


NTSB Chairman Jim Hall is to address a briefing on the
investigation in Seattle Thursday, but board spokesman Mike Benson
said Hall isn't expected to announce any findings.


Benson said investigators are simulating air loads on the 737's
rudder. "It's a slow, methodical job since we don't have adequate
black boxes," he said.


Newer models of flight data recorders, or "black boxes," would
record the angle of the rudder and the pedal controlling it. But
because the plane was reduced to debris by the force of the crash,
and the 737 was equipped with older-model flight recorders that
didn't measure such information, investigators are running tests to
"surmise" rudder and pedal position, Benson said.


Installation of improved flight recorders was an official
recommendation of the board after earlier hearings into the
Pittsburgh crash.


Museum of Flight spokesman Bill Hayes said the plane, donated
last September, was to be partially dismantled as an exhibit. The
NTSB was looking for an intact plane on which to conduct tests, so
the museum delayed its plans.


The tests are being conducted at a Boeing hangar at Boeing
Field. No airborne tests are planned.


The NTSB also conducted tests last September to determine if
wake turbulence from another plane could have contributed to the
crash. Benson said those results are still being analyzed.


 
  02-27-96  
 
