
                
       
    REID FLIGHT INSTRUCTO 

 04-12 
      

   REID FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR HNS

OTHER PILOTS REMEMBER JOE REID, JESSICA'S FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR

(For use by New York Times News Service clients.)

By GEORGE RAINE

c.1996 San Francisco Examiner



HALF MOON BAY, Calif.  -  Joe Reid, who died Thursday when the
airplane he was flying with 7-year-old Jessica Dubroff and her
father crashed in Cheyenne, Wyo., took up flying the same way he
did anything else: with passion and attention to detail.


"I respected his leadership, his thoroughness," said Gary
Petersen, manager of Half Moon Bay Airport. "He was always capable
and competent, a real by-the-book guy  -  very thorough, very
detailed."


Reid, 52, who for nearly 27 years was a broker at the Dean
Witter Reynolds office in Palo Alto, was president of the Half Moon
Bay Pilots Association.


George Auld, a longtime friend who co-owned the aircraft that
crashed, said he had first taken Reid up in a small plane in 1970.
He said Reid, a Vietnam veteran, got his pilot's license in the
late 1970s and was certified to be an instructor about four years
ago.


They bought the plane, a 1975 single-engine Cessna 177B
Cardinal, about nine years ago.


"He loved flying and helping other people learn the excitement
of flying," Auld said. "Joe's not the type to do anything half
way."


Reid began giving lessons to Jessica about five months ago and
was supportive of her effort to become the youngest person ever to
make a round-trip, cross-country flight in the United States.


"I'm teaching her just like I would anybody else," he said.
"Mentally, she grasps the concepts as well as an adult."


Forrest Storz, who also gives flying lessons at the airport,
called Reid "an exceptional, competent pilot."


Reid, who grew up in Kansas City, Mo., and was graduated from
Saint Mary of the Plains College in Dodge City, Kan., was active in
the Half Moon Bay community and serving a fourth term on the
Coastside County Water District board. He also was a member of the
San Mateo County Airport Land Use Committee and was chairman of the
annual Half Moon Bay Fly-In and Air Show.


He and his wife, Ana, were active parishioners at Our Lady of
the Pillar Catholic Church. They had two sons, Christopher, 27, of
Occidental, and Matthew, 23, of Half Moon Bay.


 
  04-12-96  
 
