
                
       
    VALUJET CRASH 2NDTAKE 

 05-11 
      

   VALUJET CRASH 2NDTAKE NYT

UNDATED: flight attendants.



Valujet, which had proclaimed itself the fastest-growing airline
in history, said last month that it would buy fewer airplanes than
it planned this year and would "concentrate on its product
integrity" in anticipation of the summer Olympic Games in Atlanta.


Last Jan. 12, a Valujet DC-9 with 30 people aboard slid into a
snowbank after landing at Dulles International Airport outside
Washington, closing the airport for three hours.


On Jan. 26, another a Valujet DC-9 got stuck in the mud at
Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport and 101 passengers had to
be bused back to the terminal.


On Feb. 28, another Valujet plane ran off a runway in Savannah,
Ga. And on Mar. 19, an emergency chute inflated inside the cabin of
a Valujet plane in Tampa, Fla., slightly injuring a flight
attendant; the pilot had to crawl out a window, climb into the
plane through the tailcone and cut the chute with a knife to free
the attendant.


Because of the inaccessibility of Saturday's crash site, few
details were available in the hours immediately after the plane
went down. In its statement, Valujet said that Flight 592 had left
Miami at about 2:15 p.m., more than 70 minutes after its regularly
scheduled departure time.


It said the DC-9-32, a McDonnell-Douglas plane configured with
seats for 113 passengers, radioed at 2:25 p.m. that it was
returning to Miami.


The Valujet statement did not mention smoke in the cabin, but
other reports said the pilot had spoken to air-traffic controllers
of smoke in the cabin.


The airline quoted preliminary reports as saying the plane went
down about 20 miles northwest of Miami "in a dense area of the
Florida Everglades, making accessibility difficult."


Three hours after the crash, the FAA reported that the jet had
been about 100 miles northwest of Miami when the pilot reported
smoke in the cockpit, and that after turning around had gone about
80 miles before crashing.


The FAA report said the plane had apparently gone into a steep
dive and exploded on impact.


A student pilot, Rick DeLisle, who was flying a small plane in
the area with an instructor, bound for Naples, Fla, told CNN of
witnessing the crash. After hearing his instructor yelling, DeLisle
said, "I turned and saw an explosion."


"There was nothing in the sense of fire," he said. "It was
almost like what I would call a mushroom cloud. It went up 100
feet."


DeLisle said he and his instructor flew closer and examined the
ground with binoculars. "We got down to about 200 feet or so, and
with the binocs it looked like a large trash bag worth of debris."


As word of the crash was flashed over news reports, relatives of
people who had been on board went to Miami International Airport,
seeking information on what had happened.


Hernando Vergera, an airport spokesman, said the Office of Dade
County Aviation was bringing counselors to meet with family
members, about 50 of whom were at the airport. They were being
taken to an undisclosed location for privacy, Vergera said.


Valujet personnel at the airport declined to comment, and had
minimal contact with the families of the victims, Vergera said.
Valujet did not immediately return telephone messages.


The Coast Guard told The Associated Press that rescue aircraft
were helping to look for wreckage and survivors. But all that
rescue pilots could detect was scorched earth, Petty Officer Angela
Weeks said.


 
  05-11-96  
 
