 It is now broadly accepted that virulent APMV-1 viruses generally arise in 
 poultry by mutation of viruses of low virulence after these viruses have 
 been introduced into poultry flocks (Alexander DJ, British Poultry Science 
 42, 5-22, 2001). Since this ND virus reported from Victoria is almost 
 identical to the 1999 Mangrove Mountain isolate, then it appears more than 
 a remote probability that the same precursor virus (so-called Peat's Ridge 
 strain) may have been present in these Victorian flocks for some time and a 
 very similar mutation event has resulted in this virulent virus. This 
 raises further questions regarding the distribution of such precursor 
 viruses in Australia.
 For countries or regions claiming ND freedom, this outbreak again 
 underlines the need for continuous serosurveillance of poultry flocks with 
 immediate epidemiological investigation (including attempts to isolate and 
 classify any APMV-1 viruses circulating) at the first sign of 
 seroconversion in flocks.
 [Newcastle disease virus is a notoriously variable virus. Strains of 
 Newcastle disease virus differ widely in virulence, depending on the 
 cleavability and activation of their hemagglutinin-neuraminidase and fusion 
 membrane proteins. Avirulent strains produce inactive precursor proteins, 
 whereas in virulent strains the precursor proteins are cleaved and 
 activated readily.  Since the spread of infection is dependent on cleavage 
 occurring in the same tissue in which replication occurs, the presence of 
 specific cellular proteases as well as the inherent cleavability of the 
 surface glycoprotein precursors determines the tissue tropism of virus 
 strains and their ability to spread rapidly. This is the basis for the 
 definition of strains of Newcastle disease virus as velogenic (or 
 viscerotropic), mesogenic, or lentogenic for strains of high, intermediate, 
 or low virulence, respectively. A consequence of this is that the number of 
 mutational steps between avirulence and high virulence may be quite small, 
 and as Howard Pharo suggests, strains of high virulence could potentially 
 arise independently from the same (or a closely related) precursor virus of 
 low virulence. Consequently, this should be taken into consideration in any 
 disease surveillance programme. A possible complicating factor, however, is 
 that the source of the precursor viruses may not be domestic poultry. - Mod.CP]
 [See also:
 Newcastle disease - Australia (Victoria) :suspected20020510.4156Newcastle disease - Australia (Victoria) (02):confirmed20020512.4173]
 ...............................as/pg/mpp

 
