
                
       
    PANTEX FLIGHTS TEX 

 02-14 
      

   PANTEX FLIGHTS TEX

FAA UNDERESTIMATED NUMBER OF FLIGHTS OVER PLUTONIUM STORAGE AREA IN

PANHANDLE

(For use by NYTimes News Service clients)

By HOLLACE WEINER

c.1996 Fort Worth Star Telegram



The Federal Aviation Administration underestimated the number of
aircraft flying over the Pantex Weapons Plant outside Amarillo,
Texas, where much of the nation's surplus plutonium is stored,
according to computerized studies under way by the Energy
Department.


The FAA counted each flight at Amarillo International Airport
once. But military training planes make up to 30 passes per flight
over the plant, according to the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety
Board.


The secretary of Energy and local farmers have expressed concern
that a plane crash into a plutonium storage bunker at Pantex could
spread radioactive smoke for miles. Plutonium, a highly radioactive
element, causes cancer if inhaled.


The risk of that scenario, previously estimated at one chance in
10 million, is expected to increase when current flight data are
analyzed later this year, according to a safety board memo dated
May 2.


"This doesn't surprise me at all," said Trish Neusch, who
farms land near the plant 17 miles northeast of Amarillo and 7
miles from the airport. "We are out there and see these planes all
the time."


Mike McNulty, the FAA air traffic manager at Amarillo
International, said the previous aircraft count, conducted in late
1994, was a "manual count on a pad," done informally by air
traffic controllers.


That 60-day accounting estimated that 25 planes a day entered
flight patterns over the zone where plutonium is stored in concrete
bunkers covered with earth and grass.


Pantex is operated by the Energy Department through a private
contractor and employs 3,600 workers, whose main mission is to
dismantle nuclear warheads. The hollow plutonium ball at the core
of each weapon is stored at the former weapons assembly plant.


The Amarillo airport averages 250 takeoffs and landings per day,
McNulty said. About half the aircraft are military planes assigned
to Air Force bases in Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas and New Mexico, he
said.


About 25 percent of the airport traffic enters a flight pattern
over the plutonium storage bunkers, McNulty said. For the past 14
months, air traffic controllers have tried to steer planes away
from the bunkers, he said.


Two of the airport's dozen flight paths are directly above the
nuclear storage area, McNulty said. One approach will be eliminated
by late summer or early fall when a new instrument landing system
is installed, he said.


The second flight path cannot be altered until sophisticated
equipment, called VORTAC, is phased out at Dallas/Fort Worth
Airport and installed in Amarillo, he said. There is no target date
for the transition.


McNulty downplayed the dangers posed by some military traffic by
noting that these planes often fly at high altitudes and stay 2 to
8 miles from the plutonium area.


"They are counting something at 35,000 as well as 500 feet,
when in actuality a plane would have to start falling in Oklahoma
to hit the plant," McNulty said. "They are just collecting a lot
of raw data."


 
  02-14-96  
 
